

# Applications of Program Autotuning: Call for Proposals for Funding for Undergraduates, Masters, and PhD Students

We are glad to  announce a call for masters and PhD  scholarship proposals for a
research project, done in the context  of a collaboration between the University
of  SÃ£o  Paulo   and  the  Hewlett  Packard  Enterprise   company,  starting  on
February 2020.

The work to be performed by candidates  will require 10 hours per week, and will
involve the application of techniques for statistical optimization and design of
experiments to a problem presented by the candidate. We are looking for students
interested in optimizing their applications, or applications used in their work,
targeting different metrics, such as performance, memory or network usage.

Ideal  problems  for this  project  include  problems  where the  search  spaces
involved  are  too large  to  be  explored  exhaustively,  and have  no  trivial
configuration. Examples of problems include  the selection of hyperparameters of
Machine Learning algorithms to  increase prediction accuracy, selecting compiler
flags  to improve  performance, and  configuring user-developed  applications to
improve user-defined metrics.

We would like students who have  already stated their research problems and have
had some progress towards measuring  and evaluating their objectives, but highly
motivated students who are just starting are also welcome to apply.

Up to  5 accepted  candidates will receive  funding, comparable  to scholarships
from  CAPES,   payed  by  IME/USP   for  eight  months,  between   February  and
September 2020. Students currently without funding are preferred.

We invite  interested students to  submit a CV  and a cover  letter, summarizing
their problem and  their interest in applying optimization techniques  to it, by
**February  20th 2020**.  We assume  your advisor  is aware  and consents  with your
participation in this project. Accepted candidates  will be invited to a two-day
workshop at IME/USP, where techniques and libraries for statistical optimization
and design  of experiments will  be presented, and  candidates will be  asked to
give short presentations about their work. Final acceptance notification will be
sent by **February 29th 2020**.

**Submit your proposal by Feb. 20th 2020 to `phrb@ime.usp.br`**

Project Coordinator: Prof. Dr. Alfredo Goldman

Project Manager: Pedro Bruel
